---
layout: post
title: "Starting Off 2020 on the Right Foot"
date: 2019-12-25
description: "I think I'll regret writing this"
img: we-in-rest.jpg # add image post
fig-caption:
tag: [Computers, Soccer, Blog]
---

> *“He thinks himself rather an exceptional young man, thoroughly sophisticated, well adjusted to his environment, and somewhat more significant than any one else he knows.”*
> ― F. Scott Fitzgerald, The Beautiful and Damned

So, I recently wrote a post on “Starting Off 2020 on the Wrong Foot.” This post is the (cooler) brother, if you will. Instead of reflecting on my recent mistake, I want to reflect on 2019 as a whole and talk about both the good and the bad that happened during the year. Of course, my reflection will be tailored towards more recent events, but I hope to record some of my thoughts here so I can revisit them in the future. Right now, the three biggest things on my mind are Computer Science, Friends, and my New Years Resolution. 
# Computer Science 
A year and a half ago, I wrote about my freshman year experience at the University of Washington. I was stressed about Major Admissions and exhausted from trying to achieve perfect grades in my classes. Now, however, my focuses have largely shifted. Throughout my sophomore year, I gradually shifted away from caring about my grades to caring more about my extracurriculars. I took up two jobs, one as a teaching assistant, and another at the Human-Centered Robotics Lab as a research assistant. 

My experience as a teaching assistant has a lot of highs and lows. Admittedly, I am/was not the best teacher. I would get nervous speaking in front of students, and my explanations were often rushed and forced. Once, I was so nervous and disappointed in my inability to explain a concept, I promptly fainted in front of 15 students. That was the worst experience of my teaching career, but I like to think that it taught me important lessons. Of course, everything is clearer in hindsight, but I did not have commit the necessary amount of time to prepare my explanations. I was overconfident in my abilities, and that ultimately lead to my downfall. Yet, my experiences were not all negative. I learned to talk louder and clearer, and I learned to fake confidence. Laugh at me all you want, but faking confidence is one of the most important skills to have if you are going to work in the software industry. Imposter syndrome is real, and no one else will advocate for you. These skills helped me with interviews, and I am confident they will help me in the future as well. This job also forced me to revisit the foundations of programming concepts. I feel more reassured about my programming knowledge, and my role as a teaching assistant played a large role in my ability to recall elementary concepts. 

Unlike my work as a teaching assistant, my time as a research assistant was mostly positive. At the beginning, I didn’t have any experience with robotics. I was worried about ultimately getting “weeded” out, and my incompetence would be fully displayed. Thankfully, that didn’t happen. On the contrary, I was able to complete the “weed out” task within a week (albeit with a lot of guidance). Since then, I have made strides as a research assistant and have now been helping out on a research project for roughly 6 months now. My time here has opened my eyes up to a new branch of Computer Science. Robotics was never something I considered, even during my high school days, when my school’s robotics team won national championships.  However, now, I see my time at the robotics lab as an important experience that has affected my career. 

### Speaking of my career… 

This is shameless of me to say, but I mainly took on these jobs to buff up my resume in preparation for the Summer 2020 recruitment season. At the end of the day, these jobs are a means to an end, and I had no plans to remain a teaching/research assistant forever. In fact, I am positive my employers also recognize this reality and expect me to use these positions as a platform to launch my career. 

### Let’s Talk Internships…

During my sophomore year, I felt jealousy towards my peers that found an internship position for the summer 2019. Many of them accepted internships at Big N companies, and others used their resources well to find internships at lesser known companies. I, on the other hand, spent minimal time looking for an internship. I didn’t recognize that people would be recruiting so early into their college careers, and I wasn’t mentally prepared to take the leap into recruiting. 

Now in my Junior year, I came back with vigor and commitment. I would like to think that I had a good game plan going into the recruitment season, and I feel leveraged my extracurricular positions pretty well in my hunt for an internship. 

I applied to nearly a hundred companies and had around 20 total interviews across 5~10 companies (I don’t recall the exact numbers). Through this interviews, I learned a lot about my interview skills, as well as about the companies I interviewed with. Here’s a quick rundown of (some of) the companies I interviewed with: 

Microsoft – My impression is that they really care about culture fit and finding people that fit their mission. I’m currently reading Satya Nadella’s (current CEO) book, _Hit Refresh_, and he strongly emphasizes the cultural shift he’s instilling at Microsoft. 

The interview questions were not very difficult. On the contrary, I would argue that the behavioral questions were harder. 

I feel its important to mention that the final round interviews were conducted at the Microsoft Redmond Campus. As a local, life-long Seattleite, I’ve been at this Campus and explored it plenty of times. Of course, it feels different when you’re interviewing there, but I’ve already seen basically everything there was to see. The one main difference is that there are other interviewees on campus as well. All interviewees wait in the same lobby and will wait for a recruiter or an interviewer to call their name and take them back to an interview room. It makes for a very nervous atmosphere, and the tension in the room was palpable. Thankfully, I met some incredible people at the lobby that day. To take our minds off the interviews and calm down, we talked about our schools instead. We talked about the differences in our classes/majors and other minor chitchat. I really think that socializing with the other interviewees helped me calm my nerves down and also made it easier for me to talk with my interviewers. Onsite interviews are an incredible experience, and I think everyone should take up the opportunity to visit different campuses and talk to the interviewees if they have the chance.

DeepMind – DeepMind was a company I hadn’t even heard about when I first applied to it, but, by the time I got my rejection email, I figured I wanted to work for them over any other company. Their recruiting process was incredibly long and difficult. They had interviews testing both my math and my cs knowledge, as well as interviews testing my robotics knowledge and culture fit. It was extremely difficult, and I ended up falling short in the final round interview, but I look back fondly on the whole process. The interviewers were kind and helpful, and I feel honored that such accomplished people were willing to take the time to interview me. I would definitely want to apply for a DeepMind role again, although, I did find it difficult to schedule interviews that worked for both London time and Pacific time. 

Capital One – you can tell my paragraphs are getting shorter, and I’m getting lazier. I think Capital One is the last company I’m going to talk about. I was totally blown away by the tech culture at Capital One, and my respect for the company only increased through the process. In their own words, “they are a tech company that happens to be in the banking industry.” Many of their services are done on the cloud through Amazon Web Services, and their approach to banking makes full use of the hottest technologies available now. Their campuses were also very beautiful, and you could tell the employees loved the work life balance the company offered. C1 is another company I would recommend to a friend 😊

# Friends 

I don’t really feel like writing this right now, so I’ll just list out some important details 

-	I lost a friend recently. I was really rude to her, and I should apologize soon. I still think she’s guilty as well, but maybe friendship first?

-	I think I should make more friends. I’m starting to realize more and more that I don’t have as many friends as I thought I did. I should try to reach out to more people. 

# New Year’s Resolution 

I’m making “Responsibility” the word of my year. There are many instances where I wish I took responsibility for my actions, and I never did. For example, I always try to push off the responsibility of walking the dog to my brother or mom. My family does it all the time when I’m not home, so, when I am home, I should do my best to help out with these sorts of things as well. 
